.\"Modified from man(1) of FreeBSD, the NetBSD mdoc.template, and mdoc.samples.
.\"See Also:
.\"man mdoc.samples for a complete listing of options
.\"man mdoc for the short list of editing options
.\"/usr/share/misc/mdoc.template
.Dd 11/28/2013             \" DATE
.Dt smcpctl 1      \" Program name and manual section number
.\".Os Darwin
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm smcpctl
.\" The following lines are read in generating the apropos(man -k) database. Use only key
.\" words here as the database is built based on the words here and in the .ND line.
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd SMCP and CoAP command line tool
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl h
.Op Fl d
.Op Fl p Ar port
.Op Fl f Ar filename
.\".Op Ar file              \" [file]
.\".Op Ar                   \" [file ...]
.Op Ar cmd Op Ar arg1 ...                \" Underlined argument - use .Ar anywhere to underline
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
is a program for exploring, interacting with, and configuring CoAP devices.
.Nm
supports taking subcommands on the command line, interactively, or even redirected from standard input.
A great deal of additional information can be found in the online help via the help command.
.\" Underlining is accomplished with the .Ar macro like this:
.\" .Ar underlined text .
.\" .Pp                      \" Inserts a space
.\"
.Sh SUBCOMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.\"
.It Xo Ar help Op Ar subcommand
.Xc
With no argument, this command lists all of the subcommands supported by
.Nm
 . If a subcommand is used as an argument, help is displayed for that subcommand.
.\"
.It Xo Ar get Op Ar url
.Xc
Performs a CoAP GET on the specified URL, displaying the resulting contents.
If
.Ar url
is unspecified, the current path URL is used instead.
.\"
.It Xo Ar cat
.Xc
Alias for get.
.\"
.It Xo Ar list Op Ar url
.Xc
Lists the contents of the specified URL in a human-readable format.
If
.Ar url
is unspecified, the current path URL is used instead.
.\"
.It Xo Ar ls
.Xc
Alias for list.
.\"
.It Xo Ar post Op Ar url Op Ar contents
.Xc
Performs a CoAP POST on the specified URL, optionally using the value of
.Ar contents
as the content of the request. Results are displayed similar to how GET operates.
If
.Ar url
is unspecified, the current path URL is used instead.
.\"
.It Xo Ar delete Op Ar url
.Xc
Performs a CoAP DELETE on the specified URL. Results are displayed similar to how GET operates.
If
.Ar url
is unspecified, the current path URL is used instead.
.\"
.It Xo Ar rm
.Xc
Alias for delete.
.\"
.It Xo Ar cd Op Ar url
.Xc
Change the current path URL, if specified. Otherwise simply displays the current URL.
.\"
.El                      \" Ends the list
.\"
.\"
.\"
.Sh ENVIRONMENT      \" May not be needed
.Bl -tag -width -indent
.It Ev SMCP_CURRENT_PATH
Informs
.Nm
what URL to use as the initial path.
.It Ev SMCP_HISTORY_FILE
Informs
.Nm
where to store command history when used in interactive mode.
.It Ev COAP_PROXY_URL
Informs
.Nm
which proxy it should use to satisfy requests it cannot satisfy directly.
.El                      \" Ends the list
.\" .El
.\" .Sh FILES                \" File used or created by the topic of the man page
.\" .Bl -tag -width "/Users/joeuser/Library/really_long_file_name" -compact
.\" .It Pa /usr/share/file_name
.\" FILE_1 description
.\" .It Pa /Users/joeuser/Library/really_long_file_name
.\" FILE_2 description
.\" .El                      \" Ends the list
.\" .Sh DIAGNOSTICS       \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -diag
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .It Diagnostic Tag
.\" Diagnostic informtion here.
.\" .El
.\" .Sh SEE ALSO
.\" List links in ascending order by section, alphabetically within a section.
.\" Please do not reference files that do not exist without filing a bug report
.\" .Xr a 1 ,
.\" .Xr b 1 ,
.\" .Xr c 1 ,
.\" .Xr a 2 ,
.\" .Xr b 2 ,
.\" .Xr a 3 ,
.\" .Xr b 3
.\" .Sh BUGS              \" Document known, unremedied bugs
.\" .Sh HISTORY           \" Document history if command behaves in a unique manner